#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Mitochondria are cell organelles that generate energy currency of the cell
 called ATPs by a series of chemical reactions in the body.
 ATP can then be readily absorbed by the cell to meet its energy demands.
 In doing so, mitochondria also generate free radicals mostly in the form
 of reactive oxygen species as a by product of the reactions.
 These free radicals are harmful to the cell.
 There is an ongoing research at Cell and Developmental Biology Department
 at LMU about how mitochondria changes its morphology with age in the free-livin
g transparent worms called 
\shape italic
Caenorhabditis elegans
\shape default
.
 The hypothesis in the field is that mitochondrial production of ATP over
 time damages cells and brings about aging.
 Moreover, not only the morphology of single mitochondria, but also the
 dynamics of mitochondiral fission and fusion in a cell are associated with
 cell death 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Mitochondria_Cell_Death"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to analyse mitochondrial morphology, worms with fluorescent mitochondri
a are put under a fluorescence microscope and 10 to 20 pictures of it are
 generated.
 As the worm is transparent, photographing it with different focuses yields
 to photographs of different levels of the worm.
 After that, each image “
\shape italic
slice
\shape default
” of the worm is scrutinized on the computer screen to find just one picture
 where cells are clearly visible.
 Using computer imaging software, the photographs are discretized until
 mitochondria can be separated from background fluorescence.
 Afterwards, another routine of this program computes different attributes
 of the shape of the areas refined during the previous step.
 These are attributes like “circularity” (shape compared to a perfect circle),
 length of one mitochondria, kind of clustering, etc.
 These data are used to classify the morphology of the mitochondria into
 two classes: 
\shape italic
fragmented
\shape default
 and 
\shape italic
tubular
\shape default
.
 As this process involves human based classification, it is prone to biases
 based on the hypothesis of the experiment.
 Hence, there was a need for an automatic classification of the organelles
 based on just the images.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This report presents an overview of four machine learning algorithms along
 with the findings regarding their accuracy, for this classification task.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
